This game aims to mimic the bestselling games Portal/Portal 2 by valve (from which we currently borrow many sound files)
The premise of the game is the portal gun, a device which allows the user to enter one portal, and exit the other
This game includes elements such as conservation of momentum through portals, and conservation of angles of entry through portals, thus allowing "momentum puzzles".

The game is controlled by both the mouse and the keyboard.
For key controls, press w/up to move forward, s/down to move back, a to move left, d to move right, right arrow key to turn right, and left arrow key to turn left.
Other keys include p to take a screenshot, q to respawn, r to shoot a blue portal, t to shoot an orange portal, space to jump, and esc to go back/exit.
The game also incorporates non-standard FPS mouse controls. The reason these are nonstandard are because the goal of this is to eventually be turned into an android game,
so the controls are similar to what is planned to be developed for android.
These controls are as follows: to look up, place your cursor in the upper 1/8 of the screen, to look down, place your cursor in the lower 1/8 of the screen, to look left, place your cursor on the left 1/8 of the screen, and to look right, place your cursor on the irhgt 1/8 of the screen.
Additionally, one may press the left mouse button to shoot a blue portal, and the right mouse button to shoot an orange portal.

In order to be transferable to the android platform at a later date, the game uses a modified version the Ardor3D OpenGL wrapper.

The goal of the game is to solve the puzzle by colliding with the exit surface, allowing you to move to the next level.

This game incorporates several additional elements.
These include:
Portalable surfaces (blue/green surfaces with the 70Three laboratories logo, which one can create portals on).
Nonportalable surfaces (white-ish surfaces which you cannot shoot portals on)
Bounce surfaces/repulsion gel (blue surfaces which will bounce you off them upon collision)
PKiller surfaces (fire-y surfaces which will kill the user on impact)
Aerial Faith plates (gray-ish surfaces which will launch the user on impact)
Platforms (surfaces that may move and take you with them) 

Known bugs include camera frustam math errors among other things cited in the source code.
Additionally, if you go through too many levels in one run, the number of items that exist/existed may cause the program to crash so you may need to quit and restart from that level. 

Finally here is a very modest commercial for the game, for which both "Joey" and "Jeremy" are cited in the credits.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=noRiz3V-qMo

Have fun, and think with portals!

To run, simply click on the jar file, or enter command line, navigate to the jar's directory and type java -jar Portal.jar
HOWEVER, please ensure that the jar folder is beside it's requisite .dlls before running.